[infra] Add README for license self verification (#295)
Samsung/ONE-vscode: infra/license/README.md

# License Self Verification

## Background

Numerous kinds of Node packages are needed to build and use ONE-vscode but some packages may have unacceptable license for both ONE and ONE-vscode.
Therefore we should review whether licenses of each package can be used or not.
However, if we check all of them manually, we may mistake or miss something.
To reduce such risk and labor, automatic license checker would be good solution.

## Process & Architecture

### Flowchart

> ![flowchart](flowchart.png)

Reviewer: With `License is UNKNOWN`, I misunderstood that `UNKNOWN` was a type of license since all chars were capital. 
Can we use lower case letters, `unknown`?

Author: Following example includes `UNKNOWN` license and it is result of `license-checker`.

```
  "traverse@0.3.9": {
    "licenses": "UNKNOWN",
    "repository": "https://github.com/substack/js-traverse",
    "publisher": "James Halliday",
    "dependencyPath": "/home/seok/HDD/repos/ONE-vscode/node_modules/traverse",
    "path": "/home/seok/HDD/repos/ONE-vscode/node_modules/traverse",
    "licenseFile": "/home/seok/HDD/repos/ONE-vscode/node_modules/traverse/LICENSE"
  }
```

I just copied this :)
If `unknown` is better for flowchart, I will use `unknown` :D

Reviewer: I didn't know that there is a license type `"UKNOWN"`. 😮 
Also I confessed that I thought that "UNKNOWN" was same with "Unlicensed"... but actually they are different.
- `Unlicense` type: https://choosealicense.com/licenses/unlicense/

I am now fine with `UNKNOWN` with all capital letter.

### Terminology

- license-judgment.json
  - Each of license names are got from the result of `license-checker`.

>   - Each license are classfied to following categories

Reviewer: `are` -> `is` ?

    - `Allowed` : Allowed to use
    - `Warning` : Manual review for each package is needed
    - `Denied` : Not allowed to use
- package-judgment.json
  - Each judgment for a package is consisted of following information
    ```json
    "pkgname@version": {
      "licenses": "License name",
      "repository": "URL for package repository",

>       "ONE_permitted": "yes / conditional / no",

Reviewer: Can I ask a somewhat basic question? 
If a package `foo` has license 'MIT`, we can know we can use `foo` by looking at `license-judgment.json`.
So, I wonder the reason of having `package-judgment.json` as a separate file.

Author: If all packages are only consisted of such cases, `package-judgment.json` would not be needed :)
The file is need for following cases

- If license is `UNKNOWN`, how can we know the license?
- If license is classified as `Warning`, can we judge whether it can be used or not by only license name?
  - e.g. `(MIT OR CC0-1.0)`
- If package cannot be used but has `Allowed` license, how can we forbid the package?

Because of these reason, I created `package-judgment.json` and this file has higher priority than `license-judgment.json` :)

Reviewer: Maybe the above should be mentioned somewhere as a _guideline to use `package-judgment.json`_.
If not, I am worrying that people will try to add all package names in a PR into `package-judgment.json`.

      "ONE_caution": "(Optional field) Cautions when package is used"
    },
    ```
    - `ONE_permitted` : Whether the package is allowed in ONE-vscode
      - yes : Allowed to use
      - conditional : Allowed to use under specific conditions. Needed to be checked before release.
      - no : Not allowed to use
    - `ONE_cuation` : Comment about why `ONE_permitted` is `conditional` or `no`.

### Design Note

- This flow is run on Ubuntu, Windows and MacOS
  - Even same package is installed, dependent packages could be different

> - `PASS` and `FAIL` in the flowchart is the result of self verification

Reviewer: The term `self verification` is confusing to me. How about `verification by CI` or `automated verification`?

Author: Main point of this sentence was "Even the flowchart is ended with FAIL, the Github Action would have green light because Github Action runner itself is successful".
Which sentence would be good to represent this :(
Or would it be better to change `PASS` and `FAIL` to another words...?

Reviewer: To me 'self' means developer (not CI) but I guess you thought that 'self' is something done by developer after running CI. I see. I am fine with the term 'self'.

Can we add some statement at the top of this readme file?

`Each developer should verify license himself/herself, with the automated verification result from CI.`

Author: Hmm... I think removing `self` seems better too :D
Is it fine with following changes?
- Remove `self` word
- Add "This verification process is not official. It is just automated version of developer's license verification" to `Limitations` or top of file

  - Even self verification result is `FAIL`, Github Action could be successful
  - This is because we may need to merge pull request even there are some `Warning` or `Denied`
    - When verification result has `Warning` and the package is under manual review, we cannot merge any pull requests until the manual reivew is finished. But the manual review may take more than 2~3 days.
    - When verification result was recognized and related updates are not yet applied, we cannot merge any pull requests until the updates are applied.
- `license-checker` can deduce for some unknown licenses. However, we do not use this function because we cannot assure it is always correctly deduced.

## Limitations

- This process is minimum insurance and thus cannot assure this tool fully covers license issues. 

> - This process only verify installed packages, not source codes.

Reviewer: `verify` -> `verifies`

# License Verification

## Background

Numerous kinds of Node packages are needed to build and use ONE-vscode but some packages may have unacceptable license for both ONE and ONE-vscode.
Therefore we should review whether licenses of each package can be used or not.
However, if we check all of them manually, we may mistake or miss something.
To reduce such risk and labor, automatic license checker would be good solution.

## Process & Architecture

### Flowchart

![flowchart](flowchart.png)

### Terminology

- license-judgment.json
  - Each of license names are got from the result of `license-checker`
  - Each license is classfied to following categories
    - `Allowed` : Allowed to use
    - `Warning` : Manual review for each package is needed
    - `Denied` : Not allowed to use
- package-judgment.json

>   - Each judgment for a package is consisted of following information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Each judgment for a package consists of following information
```

    ```json
    "pkgname@version": {
      "licenses": "License name",
      "repository": "URL for package repository",
      "ONE_permitted": "yes / conditional / no",
      "ONE_caution": "(Optional field) Cautions when package is used"
    },
    ```

>     - `ONE_permitted` : Whether the package is allowed in ONE-vscode

Reviewer 2: (optional) `ONE` prefix is needed? Just `is_permitted` and `caution` looks okay to me.

Author: I think your suggestion seems reasonable :)
Since #292 is already using `ONE_*`, I will create another PR to remove the prefix at once!

      - `yes` : Allowed to use

>       - `conditional` : Allowed to use under specific conditions. Needed to be checked before release.

Reviewer 3: [Q] Then, after the release process, every `conditional` type package will be changed to either `yes` or `no`?

Author: Ah, this sentence seems confused :(
Original intention was "These conditions should be checked one more time when we are to release".
I will fix it :)

      - `no` : Not allowed to use

>     - `ONE_cuation` : Comment about why `ONE_permitted` is `conditional` or `no`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `ONE_caution` : Comment about why `ONE_permitted` is `conditional` or `no`.
```

### Guideline

- Adding a license to `license-judgment.json`
  - Add license name without any modification
    - Do not remove parenthesis, `OR`, `AND` and so on
- Adding a package to `package-judgment.json`
  - Only add a package which cannot be judge only with `license-judgment.json`.
  - If a package can be judged only with license name, do not add here. Unless, we shall add thousands of package judgments here.

### Design Note

- This flow is run on Ubuntu, Windows and MacOS
  - Even same package is installed, dependent packages could be different
- Why `package-judgment.json` is needed even we have `license-judgment.json`?
  - If we only have `license-judgment.json`, following problems would be occurred
    - If license is `UNKNOWN`, how can we know the license?
    - If license is classified as `Warning`, can we judge only with license name whether it can be used or not? (e.g. `(MIT OR CC0-1.0)`)
    - If package cannot be used but has `Allowed` license, how can we forbid the package?

>     - If package can be used but has `Denied` license, how can we permit the package?

Reviewer 4: Just out of curiosity, what are the actual examples of this case?

Author: I couldn't find actual example for this :(
I just added this for contrast of `If package cannot be used but has Allowed license`.
Would it be better to remove this sentence and then add later if real example is occurred? :)

Reviewer 4: It doesn't seem like such an important issue. It's just a question based on logical reasoning that it is unlikely that an allowable exception exists when use is prohibited at the license level, considering which of the license and the exceptions takes precedence and is more comprehensive.
